README.md, before:

Overview
========

"pushy" is the internal nickname for the new push job feature. In this repo you
will find:

* A org-mode file describing the overall design
* A spec compliant agent suitable for production deployment
* A spec compliant server suitable for inclusion in a production OPC installation.

Run ALL THE THINGS
==================

## Ensure host-based checkouts of all projects are on the correct branches

* `opscode-omnibus` => pushy
* `mixlib-authorization` => pushy
* `pushy` => 54/integration

## Reconfigure OPC

Load `opscode-omnibus` and generate the artisanal OPC-specific app.config for pushy:

    $ cd ~/oc/opscode-dev-vm
    $ rake project:load[opscode-omnibus]
    $ rake update

## Load the new database schema

Load `mixlib-authorization` and migrate the database:

    $ cd ~/oc/opscode-dev-vm
    $ rake project:load[mixlib-authorization]
    $ rake migrate

## Load pushy into dev-vm

    $ cd ~/oc/opscode-dev-vm
    $ rake project:load[pushy]

## Start the pushy server

    $ cd ~/oc/opscode-dev-vm
    $ rake ssh
    vagrant@private-chef:~$ cd /srv/piab/mounts/pushy
    vagrant@private-chef:/srv/piab/mounts/pushy$ sudo ./rel/pushy/bin/pushy console

## Start a client

Start a client on your host:

    $ cd ~/oc/pushy/client
    $ bundle install
    $ ./bin/pushy-client -v --in-address tcp://33.33.33.10:10001 --out-address tcp://33.33.33.10:10000 -n DERPY

Feel free to start multiple clients..just be sure to give them all a
different name.

Commit message:

update README with recent dev environment changes for Sprint 55

README.md, after:

Overview
========

"pushy" is the internal nickname for the new push job feature. In this repo you
will find:

* A org-mode file describing the overall design
* A spec compliant agent suitable for production deployment
* A spec compliant server suitable for inclusion in a production OPC installation.

Run ALL THE THINGS
==================

## Ensure host-based checkouts of all projects are on the correct branches

* `opscode-omnibus` => OC-18/pushy
* `mixlib-authorization` => OC-18/pushy
* `pushy` => master (cut a feature branch)

## Build or steal an OPC deb

This will ensure you are developing against an OPC with Erlang R15B01 (you will
thank me later).

Decision time.  You can either:

1. Build your own artisanal OPC deb using `opscode-omnibus`:

        $ cd ~/oc/opscode-omnibus
        $ vagrant omnibus build ubuntu-10.04 private-chef

2. Grab a recent Pushy-aware deb from S3 (signed URL expires on 6/6/2012):

        $ cd ~/oc/opscode-omnibus/pkg
        $ wget https://opscode-east-collab.s3.amazonaws.com/opscode-omnibus/pkg/private-chef_1.1.19-128-g2616125-1.ubuntu.10.04_amd64.deb?AWSAccessKeyId=AKIAICIM7JE4OBF3OXVA&Expires=1339025284&Signature=ezWQKh0tUcwEt9v94zv7Y8mqYQ4%3D
        $ export OPC_INSTALLER=

## Stand up a dev-vm

We'll use the deb that was created/leached in the last step to stand up a dev-vm:

    $ cd ~/oc/opscode-dev-vm
    $ export OPC_INSTALLER=~/oc/opscode-omnibus/pkg/private_chef_X.X.X-X.ubuntu.10.04_amd64.deb
    $ rake start # choose 'Private Chef' environment

## Load the new database schema

Load `mixlib-authorization` and migrate the database:

    $ cd ~/oc/opscode-dev-vm
    $ rake project:load[mixlib-authorization]
    $ rake migrate

## Load pushy into dev-vm

    $ cd ~/oc/opscode-dev-vm
    $ rake project:load[pushy]

## Start the pushy server

    $ cd ~/oc/opscode-dev-vm
    $ rake ssh
    vagrant@private-chef:~$ cd /srv/piab/mounts/pushy
    vagrant@private-chef:/srv/piab/mounts/pushy$ sudo ./rel/pushy/bin/pushy console

## Start a client

Start a client on your host:

    $ cd ~/oc/pushy/client
    $ bundle install
    $ ./bin/pushy-client -v --in-address tcp://33.33.33.10:10001 --out-address tcp://33.33.33.10:10000 -n DERPY

Feel free to start multiple clients..just be sure to give them all a
different name.
